{\tfa\setupinterlinespace \Eng{Electro Magnetic Fields of ordinary objects acted as source material for
an audio performance, surveillance camera's and legislation are
ingredients for a science fiction film, live annotation of
videostreaming with the help of IRC chats{\dots}

A mobile video laboratory was set up during the festival, to test out
how to bring together scripting, annotation, data readings and
recordings in digital archives. Operating somewhere between
surveillance and observation, the Open Source video team mixed
hands{}-on Icecast streaming workshops with experiments looking at the
way movements are regulated through motion control and vice versa.}

\Ned{Electromagnetische velden van alledaagse voorwerpen dienden als
bronmateriaal voor een audioperformance, surveillance camera's en
wetgeving vormden de ingredi\"enten van een sciencefictionfilm,
live annotatie van videostreams met behulp van IRC chats{\dots}

Tijdens het festival werd een mobiel videolaboratorium opgezet om te
testen hoe scripting, annotatie, data uit digitale archieven samen te
brengen. Zich bewegend tussen observatie en interventie mengde het Open
Source video team praktische workshops (Icecast streaming, antennes 
bouwen, command line video editing) \ met experimenten die onderzochten
hoe bewegingen via motion control gecontroleerd worden en hoe
patroonherkenning beweging in gang kan zetten.}

\Fra{Les champs \'electromagn\'etiques \'emis par des objets ordinaires
comme source d'une performance audio, les images des cam\'eras de
surveillance et leur encadrement l\'egal comme ingr\'edients d'un film
de science{}-fiction, les canaux de chat comme outils d'annotation de
videostreaming{\dots}

Un laboratoire video mobile est cr\'e\'e pendant le festival pour
tester les possibilit\'es de combiner le scripting, l'annotation, les
lectures de flux de donn\'ees et les enregistrements dans la
perspective d'une archive digitale. Quelque part entre surveillance et
observation, l'\'equipe d'Open Source Video m\`elera des ateliers
pratiques de streaming video avec icecast et des exp\'eriences de
reconnaissance de mouvements : comment le mouvement est d\'etect\'e, et
comment il peut manipuler ce qui le d\'etecte.

}

}
